---
title: How Literary Criticism Lowers "The Bar"
description: "please keep in mind that the following peice was written after finishing a paper on the "great" gatsby at 1 am for my worst teacher to date"
date: 2001 (a space odessy)
---

There is a lot of works of literature. there are great one, like Wikipedia (donate for a better human outcome) good ones (like my own) and kinda meh ones (like The Great Gatsby) and somehow a few become literary classics.

how?

The best answer is no one knows, but despite being perfect, correct, and informative it does not work with my underlying life philosophy "never let perfect be the enemy, or better then good enough" so I decided to make something up.

because of the made up nature of this piece, the inability of the author to capitalize, and the fact that literally no one visits my humble abode nested inside the immense metropolis of wix.com (or at least it as when I wrote this) I would highly discourage use of this explanation. nonetheless it might be informative, interesting, and in very rare cases entertaining.

OK, that's enough filler. lets get to the gist of things. I believe that analysis makes literary classics, and that because of this the only prerequisite for great literature is for someone to make up something better then the authors story.  Instead of trying to prove this, I am going to try describe how this could happen.

People are smart, and have way to much time. they also love to make stuff up, but being lazy it is infinitely preferable to build on the works of others. almost no one cosplays original works. no one daydreams about being a character in a book that has yet to be written in a world that exists in their own mind. people pretend their harry potter, Thor, superman, that they live in the mcu, middle earth, or the matrix. the prevalence of fan fiction supports this idea and it seems to extend to deep thought. no one writes analysis of their own work longer then the work itself, but I can guarantee more has been written about shakespeare then by him. this analysis expands the world, and ever so slight bit and make a stepping point for others to launch off of.

Its hard to believe this doesn't put ideas in the work that was not there before, and I believe it builds up otherwise mediocre work into literary powerhouses.

like the one I am being forced to read right now in language arts class.

-The 42nd B'
Go back [home](/).
